so I have a really simple point to make
in this video it's simple but it's deep
and it turns out it's more difficult for
me to express without offending or
alienating the people in my life I'm
concerned about how this video is going
to be viewed by people in my life right
now keeping it all the way real with you
the really simple point I want to make
in this video and not for the first time
is that these guys who are into this
nofap ideologies guys who are into a lot
of these kind of anti-woman
vaguely misogynistic ideologies like
[ __ ] towel men going their own way and
the [ __ ] I really think they haven't
even considered
I think they haven't given enough
thought to the possibility that a woman
can play a positive role in their lives
that a woman doesn't necessarily
subtract from your ambition that a woman
doesn't reduce your ability to pursue
the goals that really manage life that
she can add to that she can add to that
ambition and this even comes down to a
little bit of a kind of biological
misconception I mean the no-fat movement
they really regard women as vampires
because they think women robbed them of
their mental energy that women love them
of their imagination and they robbed
them of their ambition like on a
chemical level it's complete nonsense
and as you know apart from wanting to
say look women can give you more
ambition and more Drive and more energy
in mentally and otherwise the idea that
this relationship can play a really
positive role in you pursuing your goals
a lot of these guys seem to have just
never thought that through and of course
I mean I'm the last person to come on
here and give you a candy-coated version
of reality in some ways my first
marriage that has ended in divorce was
the perfect marriage in so many ways I
can say wonderful things about it you
know I can say terrible things about it
too but I mean you know when I was
younger I was really looking for a woman
who would understand me why because a
lot unlike a lot of these guys talk
about being self-reliant and independent
as an abstract virtue
I actually was self-reliant and
independent I was doing independent
research I was teaching myself languages
teaching yourself a language with
teacher and no classroom it's incredibly
hard work I was undertaking original
research and even doing very independent
things in terms of my career and earning
money and you know what that
independence gets you it gets you alone
there's a difference between being
lonely and being alone I was alone and
you know when I was younger it really
meant a lot to me to have a woman in my
life who would sit down at the breakfast
table and be able to understand what
motivated me in life understand the
project that was undertaking understand
the direction I was going in life who
could sit down with me at the breakfast
table and even if she's not involved
even if she's not part of the project
who could really contribute positively
to my aspirations and goals and you know
what I've outgrown it I don't even care
about any that stuff anymore that's the
bizarre thing I feel like I've got to
come on here and maybe give younger guys
advice that was based on who I was when
I was a younger man but I don't care
about any of that stuff anymore
I mean the marriage I had my first
marriage I say in some ways really
meaningfully was the perfect marriage I
got married to a woman with a PhD in
cultural anthropology a woman who really
deeply understood not just the research
I was doing on paper like research
involving books and libraries and
archives and history and politics and
publications but a woman who understood
the importance of the work I did in
terms of fieldwork in terms of going out
in the field and talking to people
face-to-face and making things happen in
the real world who understood what I had
going on in terms of charity work and
everything else and who played this
wonderful supportive role in my life and
in so many ways I feel like I got to
come on here on camera and say to these
guys who were into nofap you can have
this too you can find a woman who
doesn't subtract from your ambitions but
adds to them and on a physical
biological level you can have a sex life
that doesn't leave you feeling exhausted
and demoralized that leaves you feeling
more energized and more motivated and
more inspired with more imagination you
can have that but the ambivalence I have
is that the the truth is now at age 38
I don't eat any of that stuff and again
I mean you know I don't want to glorify
that either it's you know for me I
reached a point in terms of maturity I
have been so isolated for so long and
you know some of my earlier girlfriends
they really did not understand who I was
I ever once had that I mean unless you
unless you've never had a girlfriend
never had a boyfriend you know what it's
like to be in a relationship where no
matter how well you explain yourself
this person is never gonna get you you
know this for whatever reason and it is
not even because they don't love you
I've been in relationships where the
girl loves me so much she's so much love
for me but her love blinds her to who I
really am and no matter how clearly I
explain no matter how much I explain Who
I am
she's in love with an image of me she
has in her own head she loves me to bits
really loves me but she's never gonna
understand me she's never gonna Know Who
I am so you know definitely when I was
younger there was wanting to be
understood and there was wanting to have
a woman who plays that supportive role
in my pursuit of my own ambitions but
now at age 38 I don't give a damn about
any of that stuff
I don't want men to understand me and
I'm now at a point where I'd be
completely comfortable being in a
relationship with a woman who has none
of that stuff in common with me who
can't relate to and can't understand my
background my professional background my
research background my aspirations in in
that respect
um damn so look this is really what I
think is the challenge for these younger
guys and maybe it's still a challenge
for some for some older guys too one you
have to know what your ambitions are
though of course I mean it goes that
saying don't start from this
misconception that the woman is only
gonna be an obstacle to your ambitions
that the woman is only gonna be a
distraction from your ambitions that the
woman is gonna subtract maybe the woman
can play a positive role in your life in
adding to you know your ambitions and
assisting you and your pursuit of
ambitions and by the same token you as
the man you have to play the same
positive role in her life and you have
to work at it
somebody was just saying in my in my
stream they said oh well why can't you
just be in a relationship and just be
yourself
[ __ ] that okay what if your next
girlfriend what if your next wife wants
to be a surgeon and is going through
Medical School you've got to take it you
as the man you got to change your life
to play a supportive role for her doing
that okay it goes both ways and you're
not gonna do that by just being yourself
what if you know the next woman involved
with is literally a farmer she's
involved in agronomy she's studying you
know the science and practical work of
how to prefer you think I'm not gonna
change you think I'm gonna just be
myself [ __ ] that don't just be yourself
change who you are
and work hard at it hit the books hit
the gym hit the pharma whatever hit
whatever you gotta hit for you as a man
to change so you are consciously
changing your life so you play a
supportive role in for her and the
pursuit of her ambitions and for you
step one is you got to know what your
ambitions are you've got to be honest
with yourself of what your ambitions are
and then you have to learn to
communicate to her what the positive
role is she can play in helping you in
the support of in in the pursuit of your
ambitions and that's hard to do for most
men most men are terrible at
communicating that most men are terrible
about being honest with themselves about
what their ambitions are and the problem
is if you're talking about a long-term
relationship your ambitions are gonna
change okay
there was a time when I was in Southeast
Asia pursuing a combination of
humanitarian work you know politics
history like I was doing research on the
history of slavery and heal Buddhism was
a huge part of my life there's no way to
did you know Buddhism was connected all
those things my research in the history
of Buddhism was linked to the history of
slavery and you know communism and the
war and post-war week insertion all this
meaningful stuff alone in my life and
you know what that ended then there was
a point in my life where that was over
and that was in the past tense and I
took on a totally new direction in my
research and my passions and I was
expecting the same woman to stay with me
and I was expecting the same woman who
played a supportive role in my life when
we were living in Cambodia together to
play a totally
different role supporting me in my
ambitions when we move to Canada
together okay so being honest with
yourself about what your ambitions are
and what the role is the woman you what
will you want her to play that that's
very very hard to communicate and it's
gonna happen both ways and it's gonna
mean work it's not gonna mean just being
yourself it's not gonna mean just being
loving or loving the other person all
right it's gonna be work for her and
it's gonna be work for you too and I
guess I mean my point is now now that
I'm so old another 38 maybe if you don't
need her to play any supportive role at
all maybe maybe if you're that guy maybe
that's also what you've got to
communicate the example I used in my
first video on this that was really
spontaneous and almost joking is
actually a really good example to come
back to though if you are a guy who is
into repairing automobiles what you like
to do is go in your garage and take a
broken-down car and fix it up it's very
unlikely that you will have a girlfriend
who is literally in the garage with you
holding a wrench hands on helping you
with that task right maybe maybe you do
some guys have a girlfriend and they're
involved to that extent some guys even
if their girlfriend could be in the
grudge they don't want them to be they
don't want them to play that role but
what is the role you want her to play
maybe if you're really being honest with
yourself and you can really communicate
it to her maybe the role you want her to
play is that when she sits down at the
breakfast table she's talking to you
about what's going on in your projects
she's asking you about what's going on
in the garage she's talking through with
you your plans and your ambitions in a
way that you find positive and
supportive and meaningful and wonderful
and that again inspires you to do more
makes you more energized that's not this
is not a vampire pulling something away
for you maybe it just is those positive
understanding conversations at the
breakfast table and there are guys
watching this we're going to hear that
and say no you're dead wrong there guys
hearing this who will look back on every
relationship they've ever had and say no
I dread the
there are guys are gonna watch this and
say they wake up every morning and what
they fear most is having to sit down at
the breakfast table and listen to the
inane [ __ ] that their wife or their
girlfriend brings and they don't want to
sit down and listen to a bunch of
questions from somebody who doesn't
understand them and doesn't support them
and where that whole breakfast table
conversation is only something that
subtracts from their own visions like
it's an unwanted source of misery that
they have to deal with guess what if
that's your situation that's the wrong
girl for you and you're probably the
wrong man for her maybe the problem is
just communication maybe the problem is
that you haven't communicated to her
what your ambitions are maybe you
haven't communicated to her what the
positive role she can play in you
pursuing your ambitions really is maybe
maybe or maybe your ambitions have
changed since you first got together
like me I switched from Cambodia to
Canada maybe when you first got together
you had a totally different set of goals
than you have now I mean you have to
reflect that maybe but maybe this is
someone maybe the particular woman
you're with you gotta leave her and
instead of viewing women this way as
always playing a subtractive role in
your pursuit of your vision subtracting
from your ambition your position maybe
you need to flip this upside down and
just use it as a criterion where you
promise yourself you're not gonna fall
in love with a woman you're not getting
to gonna get into relation unless she
can play that positive role unless she
can play that supportive role and not
everybody can and you know in so many
cases of course you just got to break up
and move on no matter how painful that
may be either because she can't play
that role maybe you can't communicate
that that role or maybe maybe you
haven't been honest with yourself about
what your ambitions really are and how
the other person that relationship is
gonna fit into those ambitions